hey everybody hello michael hello i am excited to have our this is gonna be a fun episode i
think um but it's nice in december so let's just kick it off hello and welcome to python
bytes where we deliver python news and headlines directly to earbuds this is episode 415 recorded
december 23rd 2024 and i am brian aiken and i'm michael kennedy and we're excited that uh today's
episode is sponsored by us so check out um talk python training and talk in python test.com
where we have courses there and also thank you to patreon supporters um if you'd like to connect
with the show and talk with us or give us suggestions to go on the show um look for the links in the show
notes for all of the mastodon or blue sky links we check we check those and we're on both of those
you think it's a little disingenuous that we have blue sky even though we live in oregon and it's
winter and we haven't seen a blue sky for a very long time hey i saw a blue sky like three days ago
four maybe it was a couple weeks ago okay we have them once in a while
um and if you're listening to this on in your podcast player um thank you and share it with a
friend and also um occasionally may be fun to switch over and uh watch us live so go to pythonbytes.fm
slash live and you can see when we're going to record next except for on weird days like today where i
contacted michael and said hey can we record early so we did um because well it's christmas eve eve
which makes it yeah it makes it the schedule a little wacky yeah and while we're on that brian
this is our last episode of the year next episode we'll just put a little seasons greeting or something
and so people have to appreciate this one for all of 2024 right because this is it
yeah yeah and i'm i'm i really had a fun this year so i'm grateful for everybody to stick around
sticking around yeah i am too um and the final thing i want to say is um if you haven't already
once you head over to pythonbytes.fm and click on newsletter and sign up for the newsletter so that
you can get all of the links that we talked about in the show and some commentary around it and some
notes just direct delivered right to your inbox so that would be nice so everyone needs some artisanal
notes artisanal notes yes uh fresh oregon artisanal uh made in oregon so probably still dripping wet
maybe a little moss on it yeah exactly um well once you take it off with the first topic michael
all right let's do it so i would like to talk about durable software honestly this is something i don't
hear a ton of in the python space so i thought i'd shine a little light both projects that i'm highlighting
today for the main topics on my end are sub 500 github stars so they're
that are used by people but they're not major projects but i think they could be really useful
and so i'm kind of shining a light on some up and coming ones let's say so the first one is dbos
transact pi and the the h2 is ultra light durable execution in python so what the heck does that
mean what is durable like does it have try except somewhere no more than that way way more than just
error handling so what you do imagine brian that you've got some long-running process like one step of
this process is i want to wait until a file shows up in this directory and then when it does we're going
to process it save it over here some other system maybe you don't have direct conversation like direct
connections with does some things processes it gives you a response then you take on the next like it's
like a long-running slow uh it's not just going to happen all at once right and also it has to
keep going you know if it's long running and you've got to restart your server or you want to deploy a
new version of the app or there's even a bunch of stuff if you're doing api style things where the the
worker processes periodically get restarted for memory in case they get hung up just to keep them sort of
fresh right so there's all sorts of reasons your long-running thing might get shut down in the middle
so that's what this thing handles so you write a python function you give it a workflow decorator
and then it calls a bunch of sub functions to do its steps and they're decorated with at step and then
what happens is when this runs each step before and then basically what workflow is happening what step
is running what data was passed into it is serialized into postgres right and so if it crashes it just
goes oh well what workflows i have going oh i see these and this one is at step five and here's this data
so just run step five again and off it goes okay cool that's really cool it's not something i totally need
all the time you know it's not something i feel like is a real common thing but if you were doing
like a lot of email you're i'm sitting on an email process right i'm i'm managing myself which no i'm
not but well i guess with less mucking sort of indirectly it was the self-hosted thing anyway
it you know you're contacting a bunch of things or you're calling a bunch of apis or you're up you
know uploading a bunch of files over an api like over s3 or something and the thing goes down you know you
could do this to just go all right well where was i pick it up and keep going so let's see it says all
you need to do is use a postgres database to connect to it there's no need for a workflow server which is
cool and apparently there's this thing called aws step functions because of course there are at aws if
there's any sort of possible um type of programming or execution there's a aws service for it anyway it's
it's 25 times faster than that which i guess is good more cool features scheduled jobs run your
workflows exactly once per time interval so con jobs sort of deal exactly once event processing use
workflows to process incoming events for example a kafka topic exactly once that's pretty cool in
observability all workflows are automatically emit open telemetry traces so you can anything that integrates
with open telemetry which is a bunch of the different systems out there like air monitoring
and sentry type things plug that in that's pretty cool so so it clearly works on the cloud does it
could it work with a local thing as well yeah it just needs a postgres database so if you if you
could run a postgres database or if you can run docker then you could just run the postgres image
locally and you know it's the same just same port same connection stream cool yeah there you go over to
you um i was just thinking about like uh recently you mentioned um uh going through and doing redoing
a lot of the the um transcripts um could have possibly do something like this to if it ever dies to restart
yeah exactly if you're doing or video file processing which is one that's super common
you know i want to run uh conversions for these files but it's going to take two days
liz out in the audience says that sounds interesting i've been trying to adopt airflow for a particular set
of scheduled jobs i have but it's super complicated to set up yeah pretty cool um i want to talk about a
survey a little bit that i didn't know about and i'm still a little confused but
there's a there's an article on engineering at meta uh called typed python in 2024 well adopted yet
usability challenges persist um but um and i'll get into the topic a little bit but i was a little
confused by the survey it says this summer jet brains meta and microsoft collaborated collaborated to
conduct a comprehensive survey on the state of python typing and uh perhaps i just missed that or it
wasn't the results were announced or maybe this is the announcement because this is not the jetbrain
developer survey this is something else this is a survey that happened uh through july through
october beginning of october i guess um anyway so uh back to the topic at hand um so the the idea is uh 10 years
after the introduction of PEP 484 with i didn't can't believe it's been 10 years uh we surveyed the
current state of python type systems and the tool developed tools developers are using and uh like i said
it's a it was a jet brains meta microsoft thing um so the findings 88 of respondents always or often use
types in their python code um the ide tooling documentation and catching bugs are drivers
for the high adoption of types in survey responses so and we'll get to the there's a there's a couple
other things in here too but i wanted to highlight this because um like catching bugs that's what i thought
people would use this for uh using pipe pipe or my pie um and and other you know other tools to to check for
type errors um but i think that the big the big wins are in documentation and ide tooling um i i started using
it for documentation primarily uh to document how somebody should use a method um to and i think it's super
helpful to say yeah it's going to be a list of strings that you're going to pass in here um it just helps
to understand how especially for non-obvious things um is it going to be a tuple is a list i guess it doesn't
matter it's an iterable um but um that's really helpful then the ide tooling came out came along and started
making it a lot easier just to to have type hints and everything work right um when using you now i don't
have to hop over to another screen or another uh like find the definition of a function to find out
what's in there i can get type hints to help me and the um the pop-up dialogues the whatever uh what the
code what are those things called um anyway um the ones where it's in a separate file no yeah well like
if you if you start typing a function you hit print and it's in the ide tells you oh autocomplete yeah
autocomplete stuff um it's really helpful to be able to know oh yeah it's gonna go in here i wish
that there was a way to shorten it because some stuff that has so many so i'm using all the time and is
there's so many arguments that it's like this big giant blob thing and it's not helpful but anyway
got to decrease your font size or even maybe or just like yeah just the standard library stuff that
i'm using all the time don't keep popping that up uh i don't need type hints for print just saying um so
uh all right i need type hints i just don't need to pop up there anyway um so interesting survey the uh the
one of the interesting things here was that people were using it even for personal stuff just personal
projects 66 percent of respondents said they use still use uh type hints always or often and uh 78
of professionals that it makes sense it was it'd be more when with your work code than personal code but
i'm finding that myself i'm using it even for personal stuff i'm using type type hints so a little bit of
interesting things on which ids or people are using it's a little different from from the developer survey
uh but maybe they had a different set of lists list set that people could choose from so mostly vs code
uh pycharm up there plus emacs and neo vim emacs or neo vim and other uh but like the developer survey had
had mostly what oh ide was vs code pycharm vim jupiter notebooks you know anyway so had probably just
more selection or something i think there was more there were many options in the the psf one yeah
the jeb the pycharm was the same but vs code was smaller interesting yeah different audience as well who
knows yeah anyway uh so uh i what the real takeaways here though for for me as a trainer and other people
that try to teach people is i think we need to do a better job at teaching um some of the
the reasons why people are not using types um and are what we've got not required for my project lack of familiarity
they're too complex and uh it's hard to hard to use or set up and push back from co-workers or co-maintainers is
uh the the is like 50 50 people anyway um oh wow it's not percent because the top is 150 so i'm not sure what's going on here
um so that's otherwise known as 33 percent
34 i don't know uh but the um what i found is that that i there were i always run into something that's
complex like a um you know a uh uh pie test fixture i don't know i still don't know how to type those
correctly um but you can type you can do type hints for most things and if you run into complex stuff
just don't worry about it move on um that's my recommendation uh there's you can jump go down that
rabbit hole and try to uh try to do things but i think that that's something that people would train
when training we teach people how to use type hints in simple things like this is if it's an int do this
but uh i think it's important to maybe say hey sometimes it's complex um just like there's there's
ways to do that but you also don't need to worry about it uh people can look up the docs for that
i do appreciate the uh the addition of not having to import like capital list and capital uh you know
whatever the other ones yeah like dict and yeah and all them yeah yeah and you can just do lowercase
list and dict and stuff like that now yeah which is better that's 310 and above yeah yeah so anyway uh
some interesting information here on the on typing it's nice awesome well you know what i think we just
more typing let's just it's all typing all to close out 2024 so i would like to talk about right typer
okay ght typer a fast and efficient type assistant for python including tensor shape interfaces and data
science thingies so what the heck is this so you're saying brian that a lot of developers will write
types when they write their functions but if you adopt a code base and it doesn't have typing or you have
some colleague who utterly resists it resists adding times like i will not do this but as a group you've
decided yeah we're doing it and somehow that person still works there uh you could use this thing right
so this would be good for old projects just untyped projects whatever you know a lot of examples of
projects that didn't have typing were things that traditionally supported two and three python two and
three all right and like they're like well we can't have types because we want to support python
two and now they're like you know what take take a hike python two maybe it's time to add types to
them right so that's what this thing could do so what you do is you run your python program you say
like python 3 dash m right typer and then you you can even use do it via testing i've never seen a nested
dash m i love it okay so python dash m right type or dash m py test dash continue on collect all right you
could do that and what it will do in this case is it'll run all of your tests and it'll look at the
data exchanged for each function and then it will create the signatures of those functions with typing
automatically oh wow yeah so it efficiently computes type annotation coverage for files and
directories and it infers shapes of annotations for data science thingies like i said numpy jacks
py torch etc compatible with jacks typing bear type and type guard we've covered bear type and type guard
both awesome jacks typing don't know jacks apparently there are some other tools like monkey type and pi
annotate but if you look at the timing the performance it's uh pretty good so it's like significantly
faster than some of these tools right so near zero overhead so you can kind of run it on a complicated
app and so on okay this looks great yeah and you can run a particular script and then what it'll do
is it'll output i believe a separate file and it says look you just had def barnacle took an x but no
that that x is a colon numpy dot nd array and this function returns an nd array right yeah
that's cool or if you want to have it annotate bear type remember bear type will verify that it's actually
right at runtime you can have it do that sort of deal or even if you have a partially annotated but not
entirely annotated thing it will annotate that as well yeah so you can specify the output top files whether or
not over to out overwrite your files obviously the assumption would be that that is in storage control
you've committed it you run this and override it then you look at the diff and you decide i think
that would be the best way to use it right that way you can view the diff and go looks good accept
that change looks good accept that change i don't know about that one skip that change you know like
that kind of kind of deal yeah anyway i think this is pretty awesome and it could be real helpful for
people it's it's kind of one of those tools you don't use often it's like fluent or one of these other
upgrade things it's like well i ran it once i got the old code to the new code now i just work
new code style but at the same time that's real serious drudgery that you could avoid
yeah now i gotta try it on my uh my code base is partly like i said i sometimes trip up on fixtures
and maybe it'll tell me how to i bet it'll tell you i don't know what to put for fixtures either but
it could probably discover it yeah yeah christian now in the audience points out faster than monkey
type smiley love it um oh this is neat i'm looking forward to playing with that cool indeed
all right um it's getting to the end of the year i'm feeling a little lazy
are you no tell us more no not um but uh but maybe trey hunter is so trey hunter wrote a blog post
called lazy self-installing python scripts with uv and i think that time is right for us to go back to
using our own personal scripts more because it's now so much easier with with uv and python so um i used
i mean i i thought about this i used to have my own bin the home directory bin directory full of a
whole bunch of little scripts i got a men i got a tilde bin come on now yeah tilde bin um so i've got uh
i actually to be honest i haven't done this much more lately because it's not trivial with python
um and i don't really write a lot of bash anymore or anything uh i mean a little bit but um nothing i
want to keep want to keep around anyway but that's a there's a lot of everyday python everyday tasks
that um that maybe maybe would help to to code up with python and it's easier now so uh trey walks
through it starts out with uh talking about how you can how you do this with uh just creating a file
um in a bin directory it has to be in your path um so that's i don't remember if he talks about that
or not but you have to possibly modify yours dot zhrc or your bash rc or something um to get to get your
home directory bin in your path but after it's there um you can stick a file in there and change the
permissions on it the execute bit um and oh yeah and then make sure that it's um uh it's a directory in
your path variable um and then um and then you can just run it whenever you want from any directory
the the there's a slight difference is uh the what pound bang um what do i don't know what you call this
thing shebang shebang the shebang at the top he has an example of just uh uh using uh user bin env python 3
and that's uh that works fine for for things that without dependencies so just a little python script
which is actually still pretty useful uh the the it's interesting the example though he says um uh his
script like my script dot pi but then he has an example of uh bin zero that um just prints out 80 zeros
which is kind of cool but that that really wouldn't be zero dot pi that would just be zero so you just
take off the dot pi so you can just type it um so the problem that he wants to talk about in this is uh
with dependencies and he has an example that uses uh that he uses he normalizes audio uh of a given video
file with the ffm peg uh and and great tool but yeah it's something you have to install so um or it depends
the script depends on ffm peg normalize um and the ffm peg utility so how do you deal with this he said he used
to be using pipx but now uv makes it super easy you don't have to you don't it doesn't even have to be installed to write the script you use the
the um the shebang again but instead of of python you call dash s or dash capital s uv run
and dash just script and then you you have these three slashes with script in there and then three slashes at the end all in comments
but then you can require which python so you can say requires python and dependencies and it looks it looks like there's a bunch of
i wonder how much of the uh pyproject.tomal syntax goes in here but this is very toml like but you got your uh
dependencies there and it just runs it so what it yeah and by the way not only does it install the
dependencies when you run it if they're not there it will install python if python 312 is not there
yeah and it checks it uh everyone like say you haven't run something for a few weeks and there's
been um it's not the correct versions anymore or they somebody's taking something down it'll check it and
get the right thing and it happens so fast that you don't have to worry about it if you're connected with
a connection but uh the so i tried this morning and i was thrilled to see the it says like reading that
it's it's it's the output of your script but then it also says uh reading inline script metadata from
and then it has the the title of the script and i have a lot of scripts that i pipe the output to stuff so
i was hoping that that i wanted like what's gonna mess up my output it doesn't it this reading inline stuff
comes out on standard error so and can i can i add a uh one more command flag okay what trey is
suggesting here if you go back up to the env dash uh uv command yeah with the capital s just add a dash
lowercase q and all that goes away it's the same output as anything so what's the dash is that just
script or something i guess i've never used it i just tell it to run the script so i don't know what the
dash s does the dash q will get rid of get rid of that it'll get rid of the the management output of
uv yeah because i don't really care about that yeah like you don't want that if you're not in this
i think if you're trying to this is really nice because it's a super simple way to as long as
somebody has uv that's all you need to start distributing like utilities to them but though
you don't want them necessarily to see the actually so i might i think i'll probably leave it on because
um so that i can see that it it's um what it's pulling from and um where it's like when it updates
things or something if it has to install something it'll output that but then but it doesn't mess up
the output like i said it's it's going to standard error so if your pipe standard out to something else
it'll still work fine so um anyway cool to very nice to write up like how to use command line utilities
now with python so yeah you've got uv tool install for the packages with entry points all sorts of nice
stuff yeah uv everywhere
all right those are our items um i've only got one extra that i want to talk about do you have any
questions i got a couple okay um this is pretty quick i really appreciate i forget what this is
called um so anyway i've got a the complete py choice course of of course i've split it up somebody
people can buy it in payments if they want it but it's it's like 59 bucks so on python test.com there's
also uh the the new discord community is going really great um it's a one-time admission just to
help with the costs of everything um and then uh a really quick hello py test course anyway i've priced
these where i think they're completely reasonable for people however you might not live have a software
engineering job and live in oregon um or the us so i was really thrilled the other day somebody from india
just got out of college uh doesn't have a job yet but is or maybe they have a starter job but they're
they looked at this wherever they live and they said this is too much for me can i get a discount
i don't have like the regional pricing set up so i really parity they call pricing parity that's it
so i really appreciate that so if you can find me on uh linkedin or um or a blue sky or mastodon and just ask
or and um and i'll work with you so just i appreciate people reaching out
that's it that's it excellent excellent all right i have a couple here let's i'll go through them quick
over the blue sky we've got hugo vk says hey python 314 alpha 3 is out and it's got the links to the what's
new and so on and reasons i don't understand pictures a very delicious looking cake which i'm here for but
anyway people can check that out that was from a couple of days ago yeah maybe a week not quite a
week ago five days ago so the testing of python 314 continues remember i believe it's there's supposed
to be seven total releases before it goes to beta and gets kind of locked down ish so you got that it's
not cake it's pi 3.14 oh my gosh how did i miss it how did i miss it all right one thing that drives me
crazy if you're a mac person is there's like almost always a command you can hit for settings that is the same
command comma any app you want the settings for command comma unless it's just disrespect in its
own self has no self-respect command comma will bring up whatever settings it has web browser
word editor whatever that's but check for update is all over the map some apps automatically check for
updates some the only tell you there's an update if you check for it firefox and zen browser only do it if
you pull the about screen and show it then it'll tell you but on vivaldi if you pull the about screen
it won't tell you if there's an update like it's all all annoying so i i went through and i added a
check for update hotkey so this is kind of a cool trick i thought people would appreciate it if you go to
mac os you go to settings you go to keyboard you go to keyboard shortcuts then you go to app shortcuts and
pick out individual apps and say i want this menu whatever the menu text is long as case sensitive
spaces everything it's super annoying you can't edit it so get it right is it capital four check for
updates or lowercase four check for updates you got to get that right but then you can just say control
u and then you go or whatever you want to pick and then if you just like in any app if you set up the
ones you cared about checking and just hit check for updates and it pulls it up it's kind of nice
i'm just still blown away that i never knew that command comma was the settings thing it's almost
every apple command comma will do what you're looking for okay yeah yeah but there's no update
equivalent so control u now is from my computer okay so i got firefox obs vs code zen browser
source tree like source tree is one of those that it'll go months without telling you there's an update
but if you check there's almost always an update all right on to the next thing what do we got next
oh i just uh wanted to talk about something really kind of fun and interesting on talk python i got
two things on talk about them real quick here but this is a fun web more more not not so much a talk
python thing just like a fun web design thinking about urls so check this out brown we can go to any um
any episode here so peter wang it was on and peter wang is super fun if you look at that episode page you
can see there's a thumbnail like a social media image of that which is also the youtube thumbnail
right yeah and let me see if i can make this wider so you can see it's going to be small but up here if
i just type dot jpg on the end of the url i get the thumbnail and if i just type vtt which is web vtt
transcripts i get the transcripts oh cool isn't that isn't that fun so i would encourage people to
think more about like instead of having a bunch of different ways to get things just you think about
like resource i don't know what you call it it's a little bit rest ish but i think it's neat like
maybe if i had a json representation i could just put dot json on the end and it would represent the data of
the podcast as json i don't really know what i would put there but anyway i thought i just want to
encourage people you can play that at talk python but encourage people to just think about making
cool little url api interactivity bits that way neat i like it yeah thanks all right next i did a
mega write-up you can see that on the talk python blog back by thunder fm slash blog
16 minutes reading time it suggests for this i wrote up a in-depth analysis of the top
talk python episodes top five and i even did a little jupiter notebook action to come up with
where are they on the scale and how does that compare against the average number of downloads
number one is awesome text tricks with nlp and spacey with vincent warmerdom number two
this one really surprised me it was so popular being a developer with a adhd with chris brandy
awesome episode i didn't expect to be popular version apis with stanislav
pandas and beyond with wes mckinney that's not surprising
and the state of flask and palace with david lord so those are the top five but like
just super detailed dive into like what was covered what was important and stuff so i did that
sunday yeah sunday morning the house was quiet people were chilling so i'm like i'm gonna write
well with um i mean it's a 16 minute read with everybody with adhd i don't think anybody's gonna
read the whole thing yeah maybe the people who were served by that podcast were not now
you could always listen to the episodes but it like highlights what was covered no i think that's
cool um yeah neat yeah thanks
okay now we're down i'm oh wait no one more thing since we talked about i wasn't originally going to
point this out but since we talked about typing so much and you talked about teaching and typing i
have a four and a half hour course called rock solid python and type hints and tools so over at
talk python i'll put that link in the show notes and people can check that out this is one of my
absolute favorite courses of all of our 50 or so courses and it's it's a good one this type of stuff is
it's really neat neat okay are you ready for the joke i am this one if you've heard of lol code some of these
these like joke languages this is one of them but it's a little bit more python oriented i guess i'll
say let me see if i can zoom in for making it a little legible so we come down here and there's a
table chart so it's like an alternative language so if you want to write um
if you want to write python like code but you don't like it so you've got like return instead of writing return you can say it's given
and if you want to say plus one it says riz so this is called python with a riz or uh no that's not
exactly that's it's that's its description pygat and i'm not in this world very much it kind of goes off a
lot of um like twitch stream type of terminology so you've got print instead of print you gap for true you get
aurora for false it's cooked you bop instead of deaf and then for while loops it's let him cook just let him cook
so for example a while true would be let him cook aurora
um import is gate glaze let's see uh if lf else's chat is this real yo chat only in ohio okay that's funny
oh class is skibbity i actually get that reference but oh break is just put the fries in the bag bro
uh raise is crash out okay and then assert i love a cert a certain sus yeah it's pretty
oh oh oh sus i think we should add to the language maybe yeah so this is pretty good okay let's see all
right so now let's look at an example okay so we've got here we've got here on the left we've got glaze
Gaze numpy R and P.
Lock in random glazed choice.
And then skibity risley in plurus pass, I guess.
Anyway, Duke Dennis equals zero.
Says, let him cook, Aurora.
Just let him cook.
And chat, is this real cooked?
Crash out error.
Only in Ohio.
Just put it in the fries, bro.
Just put the fries in the bag, bro.
This is good.
I think it really runs.
I'm pretty sure.
Well, I think that we should have like a conversion.
That you can take some code and convert it to this.
Yeah, yeah.
Like a transpiler sort of thing.
Or just an upgrader.
Like a two to three, but a pie to gap.
Skibity risler plurus.
Just put the fries in the bag, bro.
That might be my favorite.
Or let him cook.
Just let him cook.
Chat, is this real?
This is good.
Crash out.
All right.
Well, you ready to crash out on this episode?
Call him.
I am.
Just put them in the fries, bro.
Put the fries in the bag, bro.
Indeed.
Well, awesome.
All right.
Well, thanks, everybody, for a wonderful 2024.
And we're going to, like we said, we'll have a short thank you episode next week, possibly.
Possibly.
And then, but we'll see everybody in 2025.
Bye, y'all.
you